But so the basic issue here is now is that
you know, when you read an article
in literature or research article, for the
most
part what you get is the article and, you
as the reader get nothing else but of
course you know, everyone knows that
behind the scenes
there's a lot that went into this article
and that's what I call here the research
pipeline.
And you can see here that on the left
side here, the author is kind of going
from left
to right along this research pipeline.
And then, the you, the reader, is kind of
going from right to left.
So you read the article, and you want to
know more about what
happened, where was the data, what was,
you know, what was used here?
And so the basic idea is, you know, behind
reproducibility, is to
focus on this kind of analytic data and
this computational results box here.
And so with reproducibility, we hope, we
try to allow the author
and the reader to kind of meet in the
middle so to speak.
There's been a lot of discussion of recent
re, reproducible research
in the, in the media and the, and in the
scientific literature.
The, the Journal of Science had a special
issue on reproducibility and data rep,
data replication,um.
There is a recent feature in, on the TV
show 60 minutes looking at a, an
incident at Duke University where many
results were found to be not reproducible,
and this led to the kind of a, to a,
to a large kind of controversial series of
events, where
studies or clinical trials had to be
stopped, and a
lot of investigation, which is still
ongoing, had to occur.
Finally, the Institute of Medicine, in
response to a lot of events that have
recent, involving reproducibility of
scientific studies, issued
a report kind of saying that best
practices, or things that should be done
to promote and encourage reproducibility,
and particularly
in what's called omics space research with
these like genomics, proteomics, other
types of areas.
So, this is a, this was a very important
report.
And one of the many recommendations that
they had, they, they, the recommended
that things that, stuff, things that like
data and metadata be made available.
That computer code be fully specified.
And so that people can examine it to see
what happened.
And then all the steps of the
computational analysis be kind
of described so that people can study it
and reproduce it.
So, what do we need for reproducible
research?
So, what is the definition?
And I think there's a variety of ways to
talk about
this, but one basic definition that we've
come up with is that
analytic data be available, so the data
that
were used for the analysis that was
presented.
This is different from the raw data
because
very often in a given analysis the raw
data are not entire, are not all used for
an analysis but rather some subset issues.
Now it may be interesting to see the raw
data but it may be impractical to actually
have it.
So the analytic data is key to examining
the data analysis.
The analytic code
is also important.
So this may be the code that looked, that,
that
was applied to the analytic data and
produced key results.
So this may be regression modeling code.
It may be other types of things.
Documentation of that code and the data is
very important of course.
And finally some standard means of
distribution, so it has
to be easily accessible, all this data in
this code.
It's important to realize that there are
multiple players when you talk
about reproducibility so there's different
types of
parties that have different types of
interest.
So there's, roughly speaking there are
authors who
produce research and they want to make
their research reproducible.
And they need tools to kind of, make
their lives easier, to make their work
reproducible.
And there's also readers who are reading
research and they want to reproduce
that work and they also need tools to kind
of make their lives easier.
So, some of the challenges that are out
there right now is that authors
of research have to undergo considerable
effort
to make their results available on the
web.
So to publish data, the publish code is
not necessarily a, a trivial task and
although there
are a number of resources available now,
that were
not re, available even, you know, five
years ago.
It's still a bit of a challenge to kind of
get things out there on the web.
furthermore, once, even if things are out
there, readers have to download
the data, they have to download, look at
the results, they have
to download the code, they have to piece
things together, usually by
hand and it's not always an easy task to
put these things together.
furthermore, readers may not have the same
resources that
the original authors did, so if the
original authors use
an enormous computing cluster, for
example, to do their analysis,
the readers may not have that same
enormous computing cluster
at their disposal, so it may be difficult
for
readers to to do exactly reproduce the
same results.
And then, so, and generally the toolbox
for
doing reproducible research is small,
although it's definitely growing.
But it still, there are a lot of needs.
So what happens, in reality, is that
authors
just kind of throw things up on the web.
There are, there may be journals,
supplementary materials that are famously
disorganized.
And there
are only a few central databases where,
that, authors can take
advantage of to post their data and make
their data available.
So if you're working in a field that has
a kind of central database that everyone
uses, that's great.
But if you're not, then you're kind of out
of luck.
furthermore, the readers just end up just
kind of
downloading the data, putting the code
together by hand.
And they have to kind of piece together
the software and it can be difficult to
do.